# telecom_churn

Introduction:

Customer churn is a big concern for organizations in the modern-day due to increasing competition, the significance of marketing strategies, and customers' heightened knowledge. Attrition from one telecom service provider to another happens when competitor organizations offer clients more appealing telecom plan pricing or superior services when signing up. In the telecom industry, churn has become an integral aspect of planning and strategic decision-making. Companies in the competitive and fast-evolving telecom market must devise new tactics to combat churn. This project is an effort to estimate customer churn for a telecommunications firm based on a data set including numerous variables describing the qualities of the sector and other elements deemed significant when dealing with telecom consumers. This data collection has 100 variables and around 100,000 records. Using machine learning techniques such as linear regression, logistic regression, and random forest, the telecom industry can anticipate user turnover. According to the study's findings, the accuracy rate of customer churn prediction is ~0.64 percent and the area under the curve is ~0.65. In this predictive study, we used logistic regression, Gaussian Naive Bayes, Random forest, XG Boost classifier, and artificial neural networks (ANN). Additionally, we utilized one-hot encoding to convert categorical data to numeric ones and the log transformation approach to manage outliers. 

Conclusion:

In our examination of a US telecom company's customer data, we attempted to understand why consumers are quitting the company's service. Our explanation was based on characteristics describing the characteristics of the telecom business and numerous variables deemed crucial when interacting with telecom clients. Even though the data set had 100 distinct qualities, some of those attributes were similar. Despite the relatively low correlation, we used a range of charts and plots to illustrate the relationship between variables during our first inquiry involving the objective variable. There were several difficulties with the data, since some crucial variables had zero values, resulting in a poor correlation with the target variables. In addition, some significant variables had many missing values, which we addressed by imputing the missing values and removing missing value rows of low importance. There were several difficulties with the data, since some crucial variables had zero values, resulting in a poor correlation with the target variables. Then, after applying a variety of models, we determined that the Gradient Boosting model was the best option since it provided the highest accuracy, the area under the curve (AUC), and recall rates. Even though the results were not precisely what we anticipated, we have reason to think that, with enhanced data processing, this model will be able to give us significant insights and aid us in making crucial business decisions. In other words, the quality of the data will undoubtedly have an influence on the correlation values with the target feature, resulting in a better rate of correct judgment and a larger ability for decision-making.
